[The Dataset]
Q1. Why didn't the authors release the complete dataset?
A1. Because the original read data was too large, and they were running out of time.

Q2. Demanding exact k-mer matching in Kraken has benefits for removing human reads. Why?
A2. Kraken database is constructed from complete bacterial, archaeal, and viral genomes in RefSeq, with over 99.9% accuracy on simulated 100bp reads of a metagenomic dataset. This makes it beneficial to use Kraken to assign non-human taxonomy in metagenomic sequencing.

Q3. What is the SRA? How many samples are there in the SRA currently? How many bases are publicly available on the SRA in total? 
A3. SRA is a publicly available repository of high throughput sequencing data made by NIH. As of 2020, SRA contains 9M records and 12PB of data.

[Metagenomic pathogen detection using MMseqs2]
Q1. Why might a protein-protein search be useful for finding bacterial or viral pathogens? How does this compare with Kraken's approach?
Q2. In contrast to RNA-based search, protein-protein search ---

[Assigning taxonomix labels]
Q1.What is the most common species in this dataset? 
A1.The most common species in the dataset is Ralstonia solanacearum, with 16.0449% of reads covered.

Q2. Why are there so many different eukaryotic sequences? Were they really in the spinal fluid sample?
A2. 365 species are included in the dataset, but only 10 species have a >1 percentage of reads covered. This may imply that a majority of the species analyzed were due to contamination in the spinal fluid sample.

[What is the pathogen?]
Q1. Based on the literature, which one is the most likely pathogen?
A1. Powassan virus is the most likely pathogen, for it is a only recognized cause of encephalitis in North America, existing primarily in the northeastern region. The time from the tick bite to feeling sick ranges from 1 week to 1 month, also matching the patient's description.

Q2. For which species do you find evidence in the metagenomic reads?
A2. Of the 6 species, only the Powassan virus is included in the metagenomic reads.

Q3. Approximately how many reads belong to the pathogen? Based on this number, how would you determine if it is significant evidence for an actual presence of this agent?
A3. About 5.9074% of reads are covered by the clade rooted at species Powassan virus, with 958 reads.---

[Investigating the pathogen]
Q1. What is the taxon identifier of the pathogen? Did you find one or more?
A1. The taxon identifier of Powassan virus is 11083.

Q2. How many reads of the pathogen are in this resulting FASTA file?
A2. 958 reads are in the FASTA file.

[Assembling reads to proteins]
Q1. Which proteins do you expect to find in the pathogen you discovered? Search the internet.
A1. According to Yang et al., the tick-bourne encephalitis(TBEV) species genome contains a single ORF which is cleaved into 3 structural proteins and 7 nonstructural proteins (https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkaa1250).

Q2. How many sequences were assembled?
A2. 35 sequences were assembled.

Q3. Do some of the sequences look similar to each other?
A3. There seems to be distinct similarities in the sequences.

[Clustering to find representative proteins]
Q1. How many sequences remain now?
A1. 9 sequences remain.

Q2. How well does this agree with what you expected according to your internet search?
A2. 10 protein sequences were found in literature search, and 9 sequences were found using Plass. 

[Annotating the proteins]
Q1. Which of the expected proteins do you find?
A1. The mmseqs search server is closed at the moment.

[Aftermath]
Publication is available here [https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/cix792]
